---
header: SLSA Build Levels
layout: resources
toc: true
show_toc: 2
description: Describes the SLSA Build Levels
---

# SLSA Attestations by SignPath

**TODO: This is a work in progress, just a place to put notes in for now**

*Should map from builder.id*

## Definitions

*TODO: Linked by build type*

"Identifies the template for how to perform the build and interpret the parameters and dependencies.

The URI SHOULD resolve to a human-readable specification that includes: overall description of the build type; schema for externalParameters and internalParameters; unambiguous instructions for how to initiate the build given this BuildDefinition, and a complete example. Example: https://slsa-framework.github.io/github-actions-buildtypes/workflow/v1"




## Guarantees

This section describes the guarantees made by SignPath for each SLSA Level. They are expressed by the following `runDetails.builder.id` values within the provenance:

| Builder ID                                              | Details                                        |
| ----------                                              | -------------------------------------------    |
| `https://signpath.io/slsa/builder/generic/level1`       | SLSA Level 1, independent of the build system. |
| `https://signpath.io/slsa/builder/generic/level2`       | SLSA Level 2, independent of the build system. |
| `https://signpath.io/slsa/builder/$build-system/level3` | SLSA Level 3, where `$build-system` specifies the associated build system. |

The following `build-system` values are currently supported:
* `azure-devops`: A build from the [Azure DevOps](/documentation/trusted-build-systems/azure-devops) build system hosted by Microsoft in the cloud (at dev.azure.com).


### Provenance generation requirements

#### SLSA Level 1: A provenance must exist

{:.quote}
> The build process MUST generate provenance that unambiguously identifies the output package by cryptographic digest and describes how that package was produced

Guarantee: SignPath created a complete provenance.

#### SLSA Level 2: The provenance is authentic

{:.quote}
> Authenticity: Consumers MUST be able to validate the authenticity of the provenance attestation in order to ensure integrity and define trust.

Guarantee: The provenance was signed through or by SignPath.

{:.quote}
> Accuracy: The provenance MUST be generated by the control plane and not by a tenant of the build platform.

Guaranteee: SignPath created the provenance. All contents are obtained from a trusted build system and cannot be tempered with.

#### SLSA Level 3: The provenance is unforgeable

{:.quote}
> Accuracy: Provenance MUST be strongly resistant to forgery by tenants.

Guarantee: The signing key is stored on SignPath. If the provenance is signed by SignPath (TODO), the key is only accessible to SignPath.io for the purpose of signing provenance files.

### Isolation strength requirements

#### SLSA Level 2: Hosted builds

{:.quote}
> All build steps ran using a hosted build platform on shared or dedicated infrastructure, not on an individual’s workstation.

Guarantee: All builds were reported through a [Trusted Build System](/documentation/trusted-build-systems). If the provenance is signed by SignPath (TODO), SignPath will guarantee that the build system is hosted in the cloud (e.g. GitHub.com or GitLab.com), otherwise, the publisher of the provenance confirms that they connected a self-managed build system with SignPath.

#### SLSA Level 3: Isolated builds

{:.quote}
> It MUST NOT be possible for a build to access any secrets of the build platform, such as the provenance signing key, because doing so would compromise the authenticity of the provenance.

Guarantee: If the provenance is signed by SignPath, the build was executed on a cloud-hosted trusted build system which ensures access restrictions to build platform secrets. The provenance signing key is only accessible by SignPath.

{:.quote}
> It MUST NOT be possible for two builds that overlap in time to influence one another, such as by altering the memory of a different build process running on the same machine.

| Build System | Guarantee                      |
| --           | ------------------------------ |
| Azure DevOps | The build was executed on a runner from the Microsoft-hosted pools, which offer isolation (see [the official documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/security/misc))

{:.quote}
> It MUST NOT be possible for one build to persist or influence the build environment of a subsequent build. In other words, an ephemeral build environment MUST be provisioned for each build.

| Build System | Guarantee                      |
| --           | ------------------------------ |
| Azure DevOps | The build was executed on a runner from the Microsoft-hosted pools, which provide a clean virtual machien for each build run (see [the official documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/security/misc))

{:.quote}
> It MUST NOT be possible for one build to inject false entries into a build cache used by another build, also known as “cache poisoning”. In other words, the output of the build MUST be identical whether or not the cache is used.

| Build System | Guarantee                      |
| --           | ------------------------------ |
| Azure DevOps | Cache usage has to be explicitly defined in the pipeline definition and cannot be shared across pipelines or branches (see [the official documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/release/caching?view=azure-devops&tabs=bundler#cache-isolation-and-security))
